Hi everyone!
This is a small demo for Python exceptions hierarchy.
We said that Baz exception is the top level class for all exceptions.
It has a subclasses generator exit Keyboardinterrupt system exit and exception.
Exception also has a lot of subclasses like arithmetic error, name error, type error and runtime error
and other.
Some of these subclasses are also a base class for other subclasses like arithmetic error has subclasses,
zero division error, floating point error, and also overflow error.
If you remember, this is overflow error, a subclass of arithmetic error.
We see that in the last chapter, and OS error also have subclasses like permission error and file not
found error.
Let's go!
More Python exceptions hierarchy.
Here we have a try except block for the exception arithmetic error.
Go to implementation.
Arithmetic error has a subclasses floating point error, overflow error and zero division error.
Implementation.
We have three subclasses.
Super method.
Arithmetic error.
Inherit from exception.
Exception.
Inherit from base exception and base exception.
Inherit from the class object.
Base exception is the top class level for all exception.
Let's go to the second example.
We have a single except statement which contains two exceptions file not found error and permission
error.
Let's go to implementation.
File not found.
Error doesn't have subclasses.
Let's go to the base class.
Super method file not found.
Error.
Inherit from OS error.
OS error.
Inherit from exception and exception inherit from base exception.
Let's go to the second exception.
Permission error.
Go to implementation.
Permission error doesn't have subclasses.
Permission error.
Inherit from OS error.
OS error.
Inherit from exception.
Exception.
Inherit from base exception.
Base exception is the top level class for all exception and exception is the base class for all exception.
Exception is the base class for all exception, which means that any exception inherit from the class
exception.
When we define exception, we set that base class for all exceptions.
That's it for this video.